# Nuclear Receptor classification 
This directory contains source accompanying PLOS ONE manuscript " Computational characterization of modes of transcriptional regulation of nuclear receptor genes". 


Copyright (c) 2013, Yogita Sharma (yogita12@gmail.com)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

## List of files

###count_hcne.pl
This script counts the HCNEs around 2MB region of the gene coordinates
for single pair wise comparison. Each of the five pairwise HCNEs were
counted in this fashion. 

Usage: `perl count_hcne.pl >outfilename`
	
###plot_hcnematrix.R
This script generates HCNE matrix shown in Figure 2 using the output
file generated by `count_hcne.pl` for all the species. 

Usage: `R CMD BATCH  plot_hcnematrix.R`

### plot_hcnecdf.R
This script generates cumulative distribution of HCNE densities for
each pair wise comparison (shown in Figure 3 in the manuscript).

Usage: `R CMD BATCH  plot_hcnecdf.R`

### Statisticaltest\_enhancementenrichment\_v1.R
This code generates data files for background distribution of H3k4me1
enrichment for the datasets used for statistical analysis for all
selected genomic ranges. 

Usage: `R CMD BATCH Statisticaltest_enhancerenrichment_v1.R`

### Statisticaltest\_enrichment\_v2.R
This code generates data files for count of H3k4me1 reads for each of
the datasets through random sampling for the selected genomic ranges. 

Usage: `R CMD BATCH Statisticaltest_enhancerenrichment_v2.R`

### plot_statisticalanalysis.R
This script generates statistical distribution of H3k4me1 read counts
in each dataset (shown in Figure 4 in the accompanying manuscript).

Usage: `R CMD BATCH plot_statisticalanalysis.R`

### fetch_significantreads.pl

This script counts the number of significant reads within 10kb
region of gene co-ordinates for specific histone mark.

Usage: `Perl fetch_significantreads.pl >outfilename`


### plot_bubbleplot.R

This script generates bubble plot shown in Figure 5. The input files for the data were generated using the script `fetch_significantreads.pl` for both histone marks.
 
Usage: `R CMD BATCH plot_bubbleplot.R`


### plot_HMMstate.R
This script generates bubble plot shown in Figure 6.

Usage: `R CMD BATCH plot_HMMstate.R`

### extract_coverage.R

This code generates files for extracting coverage across selected
genomic ranges and finally plot the  coverage for H3k4me2 for Gm12878
cell line. The coverage for other histone marks were extracted the
same way across all cell lines.

Usage: `R CMD BATCH extract_coverage.R`


